# Analysing the effect of sibling number on input and output in the first 18 months - Read Me ###

Repository maintained by Catherine Laing {catherine.laing@york.ac.uk}

## 1. Demographics (Demographics.R)

This is the main file containing all demographics data, incorporating relevant variables from the demographics questionnaires at 6 and 18 months,
mothers' PVT scores, and CDI data (productive vocabulary) from 6-18 months, as well as additional variables taken from the monthy video and audio home-recordings 
at age 6-17 months.

This is the first script to be generated in the siblings analysis markdown file; it generates the *SiblingsData* dataframe used in the main analysis. 

*SiblingsData* includes the following variables:

1. *subj*: infant ID, determined by random number generator          
2. *month*: age in months, 10-18            
3. *sex*: F/M              
4. *MOTedulevel*: numeric variable representing mother's education from 1 (High School) to 6 (Doctorate)           
5. *age_mom*: mother's age in years      
6. *PVTscore*: index of mother's vocabulary size, higher numbers indicate better vocabulary score
7. *SibsYN*: binomial variable to determine whether or not child has any siublings (Y) or not (N) 
8. *Siblings6*: number of siblings when the child was 6 months old as a continuous variable from 0-5
9. *Siblings18*: number of siblings when the child was 18 months old as a continuous variable from 0-5
10. *SibGroup6*: number of siblings when the child was 6 months old as a factorial variable, none (0 siblings), one (1 sibling), 2+ (2 or more siblings)
11. *SibGroup18*: number of siblings when the child was 18 months old as a factorial variable, none (0 siblings), one (1 sibling), 2+ (2 or more siblings)
12. *Total.words*: Total words in the child's productive vocabulary as reported on the CDI questionnaire 
13. *Log.Totalwords*: log-transformed measure of *Total.words* 
14. *tokens_video*: number of word tokens produced by the target child in the hour-long video data 
15. *types_video*: number of word types produced by the target child in the hour-long video data 
16. *tokens_audio*: number of word tokens produced by the target child in the 3-hour audio data
17. *types_audio*: number of word types produced by the target child in the 3-hour audio data
18. *Log.tokens_video*: log-transformed measure of *tokens_video* 
19. *Log.types_video*: log-transformed measure of *types_video*  
20. *Log.tokens_audio*: log-transformed measure of *tokens_audio* 
21. *Log.types_audio*: log-transformed measure of *types_audio* 

Note that one child had no siblings at 6 months but had one sibling at age 18 months.

# 2. Data gathering (Data gathering.R)

This file extracts the relevant data from the all_basiclevels dataset (all_basiclevel_randsubj.csv). This is the dataset incorporating all variables extracted from the SEEDLingS corpus (Bergelson, 2016). All video and audio recordings were annotated for each object word (i.e. concrete noun) produced either by or towards the target child, included in the *basic_level* column. For the analysis of caregiver input, this was filtered to include a) only video data, and b) no productions from the target child. Three main variables were then extracted and joined with the Demographics spreadsheet: object presence, utterance type, and speaker type. These are filtered to include only the data relevant to the caregiver input aspect of the analysis. The following dataframes are then generated:

* *object.presence*: raw number and proportion of all basic_level words that were produced while being touched, held or pointed at by the speaker or baby, or were clearly being visually focused on.
* *speaker.type*:  raw number and proportion of all utterances produced by the two main caregivers (defined as the 2 caregivers in a session who produced the most words) and sibling/s (SIBLING). An additional variable is created called *Family.input* which aggregates all words produced by the three speaker types

## Data files saved in folder:

*demo_deid_cleaned.csv* - demographics data for all SEEDLingS participants, copied from Work study folder on 9th July 2019

*ParentPVT* - PVT scores and ages for all SEEDLingS mothers, copied from Work study folder on 9th July 2019

*cdi* - CDI data of all participants, copied from Work study folder on 9th July 2019 and then joined with randomly-generated anonymous subject numbers 

## Other documents ##

*Sibling_ages.csv* includes age of siblings, sibling group, and whether the sibling is older or younger

*SiblingsData* is generated by the Demographics script to aggregate all production data (CDI, video and audio)

*types_tokens_overall_CDI_sibgroup* integrates child production data with input data from the video and audio files




